Updated documentation on the CI config files. (#550)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-ci/sample-ci-configs.md

## GitHub Actions

```yaml
# Name of this GitHub Actions workflow.
name: Semgrep

on:
  # Determine when you want Semgrep to scan your code.
  # Use as many of the following options as you want.

>   # Option 1: scan changed files in PRs, block on new issues only (existing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Option 1: Scan changed files in PRs, block new issues only (existing
```

Reviewer: @efortuna does this mean that: Scan only files changed in PRs. When Semgrep reports a finding it blocks the PR only for the new findings reported from the PR (existing issues in the repository are ignored).

Not sure here, this doubt is applied to all similar sentences in this document.

Author: that's correct. Do you have a suggestion for better phrasing? I personally feel like the "on" in the original version is a bit clearer, but if we have a better phrasing overall, I'm down for it.

Reviewer: @efortuna It seems it either should be `block` or `put a block on` (but the word of a native is strong):
- https://www.macmillandictionary.com/dictionary/british/put-a-block-on-something
- https://idioms.thefreedictionary.com/block+on

What about: `# Option 1: Let Semgrep report findings only for files changed in PRs. Only findings in the PR become blocking (existing issues in the repository are ignored).`

Author: Cool, I changed the sentence entirely, since I realized that we don't even actually "block" on all findings -- it could be "monitor/audit" or "comment"! So I changed the verb to be "report".

>   # issues in the repository ignored).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # issues in the repository are ignored).
```

  # To run on specific types of PR states (opened, reopened, etc) or particular

>   # paths or branches, see the GitHub docs at:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # paths or branches, see the following GitHub documentation:
```

  # https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/events-that-trigger-workflows#pull_request
  pull_request: {}

>   # Option 2: scan all files on branches, block on any issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Option 2: Scan all files on branches, block any issues
```

  # push:
  #   branches: ["master", "main"]

>   # Option 3: schedule this job to run at a certain time, using cron syntax

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Option 3: Schedule this job to run at a certain time, using cron syntax.
```

Reviewer: This job is which job? Semgrep in CI job? Should be specified to make reading more comfortable. :-)

>   # Note that * is a special character in YAML so you have to quote this string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # The asterisk sign * is a special character in YAML so you have to quote this string
```

Reviewer: @efortuna... have to share - I never checked the etymology of asterisk. But it appears that ἀστερίσκος is a little star! ([Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asterisk)) Reminds me of: https://youtu.be/ThHz9wlBeLU :D

  # schedule:
  #   - cron: '30 0 1,15 * *' # scheduled for 00:30 UTC on both the 1st and 15th of the month

jobs:
  semgrep:
    # User definable name of this GitHub Actions job.
    name: Scan
    # Only change the if you are self-hosting. See also:
    # https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-jobs/choosing-the-runner-for-a-job#choosing-self-hosted-runners
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    container:
      # A Docker image with Semgrep installed. Don't change this.
      image: returntocorp/semgrep
    # Skip any PR created by dependabot to avoid permission issues
    if: (github.actor != 'dependabot[bot]')
    steps:

>       # Fetch project source with GitHub Actions Checkout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # Fetch project source with GitHub Actions Checkout.
```

      - uses: actions/checkout@v3

      # Run the "semgrep ci" command on the command line of the docker image.
      - run: semgrep ci
        env:
          # Select rules for your scan with one of these two options.

>           # Option 1: scan with rules set in Semgrep App's rule board

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          # Option 1: Scan with rules set in Semgrep App's rule board
```

          # Make a token at semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/tokens, and then
          # save it in your GitHub Secrets.
          SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN }}

>           # Option 2: set hard-coded rulesets, viewable in logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          # Option 2: Set hard-coded rulesets, viewable in logs.
```

## GitHub Actions

```yaml
# Name of this GitHub Actions workflow.
name: Semgrep

on:
  # Determine when you want Semgrep to scan your code.
  # Use as many of the following options as you want.
  #
  # Option 1: Scan changed files in PRs, only report new findings (existing
  # findings in the repository are ignored).
  # To run on specific types of PR states (opened, reopened, etc) or particular
  # paths or branches, see the following GitHub documentation:
  # https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/events-that-trigger-workflows#pull_request
  pull_request: {}

  # Option 2: Scan all files on branches, report any findings.
  # push:
  #   branches: ["master", "main"]

  # Option 3: Schedule CI job to run at a certain time, using cron syntax.
  # Note: the asterisk sign * is a special character in YAML so you have to quote this string

>   # schedule:
>   #   - cron: '30 0 1,15 * *' # scheduled for 00:30 UTC on both the 1st and 15th of the month

Reviewer 2: Maybe we uncomment this? That way if people copied, it's still our recommended config
```suggestion
  schedule:
    - cron: '30 0 1,15 * *' # scheduled for 00:30 UTC on both the 1st and 15th of the month
```

Author: yes!

  pull_request: {}
jobs:
  semgrep:
    # User definable name of this GitHub Actions job.
    name: Scan
    # Only change the if you are self-hosting. See also:
    # https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-jobs/choosing-the-runner-for-a-job#choosing-self-hosted-runners
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    container:
      # A Docker image with Semgrep installed. Don't change this.
      image: returntocorp/semgrep
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3

      # Select rules for your scan with one of these two options.

>       # Option 1: scan with rules set in Semgrep App's rule board

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # Option 1: Scan with rules set in Semgrep App's rule board.
```

      # Make a token at semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/tokens, and then
      # save it in your GitHub Secrets.
      - run: semgrep scan --sarif --output=semgrep.sarif --config=policy
        env:
          SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN }}

>       # Option 2: set hard-coded rulesets, viewable in logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # Option 2: Set hard-coded rulesets, viewable in logs.
```

```yaml
semgrep:
  # A Docker image with Semgrep installed.
  image: returntocorp/semgrep
  # Run the "semgrep ci" command on the command line of the docker image.
  script: semgrep ci

  rules:
  # Determine when you want Semgrep to scan your code.
  # Use Option 1, 2, or both.

>   # Option 1: scan changed files in MRs, block on new issues only (existing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Option 1: Scan changed files in MRs, block new issues only (existing
```

>   # issues ignored)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # issues ignored).
```

  - if: $CI_MERGE_REQUEST_IID

>   # Option 2: scan all files on default branch, block on any issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Option 2: Scan all files on the default branch, block any issues
```

  # - if: $CI_COMMIT_BRANCH == $CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH

  variables:
    # Select rules for your scan with one of these two options.

>     # Option 1: scan with rules set in Semgrep App's rule board

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Option 1: Scan with rules set in Semgrep App's rule board
```

    # Get your token at semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/tokens.
    SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN: $SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN
    # Option 2: set hard-coded rulesets, viewable in logs.

>     SEMGREP_RULES: p/default # more at semgrep.dev/explore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    SEMGREP_RULES: p/default # See more at semgrep.dev/explore.
```

```yaml
semgrep:
  # A Docker image with Semgrep installed.
  image: returntocorp/semgrep
  # Run the "semgrep ci" command on the command line of the docker image.
  script: semgrep ci

  rules:
  # Determine when you want Semgrep to scan your code.
  # Use Option 1, 2, or both.
  #
  # Option 1: Scan changed files in MRs, only report new findings (existing
  # findings ignored).
  - if: $CI_MERGE_REQUEST_IID
  # Option 2: Scan all files on the default branch, report any findings.

>   # - if: $CI_COMMIT_BRANCH == $CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH

Reviewer 2: Would it be possible to get CSE help here on if we can do scheduled scans (similar to Github Actions setup)? This could happen later so not blocking this PR

Author: on it.

Author: updated comments. :-)

        image: returntocorp/semgrep
        workdir: /<org_name>/<repo_name>
        environment:
          # Scan with rules set in Semgrep App's rule board
          # Make a token at semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/tokens
          - "SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN=${SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN}"

        # == Optional settings in the `environment:` block

>         # Instead of `SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN:`, set hard-coded rulesets, 

Reviewer: So this no longer uses rules set in Semgrep App? Maybe we should specify this information still somehow.

Reviewer: Maybe I just got confused by moving stuff around. Feel free to ignore this and the comment above if it is so. :-)

Author: yeah, see line 231. We're still using the Semgrep App, just by default now, rather than hard-coded by default.

        type: string
        default: main
    environment:

>       # Scan with rules set in Semgrep App's rule board

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # Scan with rules set in Semgrep App's rule board.
```

      # Get your token at semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/tokens
      SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN: $SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN

      # Scan changed files in PRs, block on new issues only (existing issues ignored)
      SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF: << parameters.default_branch >>

    # == Optional settings in the `environment:` block

>     # Instead of `SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN:`, set hard-coded rulesets, 

Reviewer: So this no longer uses rules set in Semgrep App? Maybe we should specify this information still somehow.

Author: yeah, see line 277. We're still using the Semgrep App, just by default now, rather than hard-coded by default.
